“Loosen your load,” I said to the man in grey. “You’re not going to need any weapons in here.”
He removed his holster and put it on the bookshelf, then took off his hat and put it on the rack. “I feel naked without it,” he said.
That didn’t surprise me. These were guns that had seen some use. He had a worn face that had not only seen death, but looked on as death stare right back at him. It was his eyes that gave it away. They betrayed a sadness in him that could only come from loss. Some men came to me excited, looking for a little fun. He was coming in the hopes of reclaiming any part of a feeling that may have been gone forever.
“Naked with them, huh? May as well keep on going, then,” I said. I judged him to be the kind of customer who didn’t have any pretenses. One who was all business, who maybe needed a bit of coercing to move forward, but not a whole lot. I laid on the bed, in my negligee, batting my eyelashes at him and pouting my lips.
“If it’s all the same,” he said, “I’d rather take it slow. I’m in no hurry.”
The lunchtime crowd was usually men who wanted to get in, fire off their guns, and get out. It was rare that they wanted to sit and have a chat. But this man here wasn’t an everyday ordinary man. This man here was what we refer to around these parts as a heroic type. The kind that had a moral code and swore by it.
“What’s your name?” he asked, pulling out a chair from a small desk and sitting down in it, keeping his eyes on me the entire time.
“Claudia.” It wasn’t my name by birth, but by this point, it may as well have been.
“Well, Claudia, let me introduce myself. My name is Everett St. John and you know what it is I am?”
“I wouldn’t presume to say.”
He gave me a piercing stare, his weathered face perhaps hadn’t smiled in years. “What I am, Claudia, is a dead man. You’re looking at a man who has but a few hours left on this earth and I heard you’re a woman who can help me make the best of ‘em.”
“Dead or not, you still need to pay.”
“Naturally.” He pulled out his billfold.
“Twenty dollars,” I said.
He looked at me in disbelief.
“You’re a dead man, it’s not like you’re using it for anything else.”
He nodded. “In that case, I’ve got thirty. Make sure and buy yourself something nice.”
He handed me the bills and I counted them.
“This real currency?” I asked.
“It’s real.”
“Because I’ve been cheated before. I don’t know who you’re in trouble with, but if I find out you’re passing me counterfeit, you’ll be a dead man twice over.”
He nodded. “It’s real.”
I placed the bills in the drawer on my nightstand.
“You heard of Rabid Pete?” he asked.
“Yeah. They say he’s a murderer.”
“Murder’s a nice way of saying what he did. The bodies looked like something out of a butcher shop  after he was done with them. I saw this one man, I… but I digress. A pretty young thing such as yourself don’t need to hear about any of this.”
He was sparing me the details as if I’d never encountered such heinous crimes. As if I hadn’t heard all there is to here about the so-called “Rabid” Pete.
I let him keep talking.
“I’m the one who put him behind bars. I collected my bounty and normally, I’d be on my way to the next town.”
“Why ain’t you?” I noticed his hand shaking and his brow sweating. Once he started his story, he had to finish it.
“Rabid Pete’s got connections. The second his buddies one town over in Carson found out about it, they sent me a telegram saying they was on their way here.”
He pulled a piece of paper out of his boot and tossed it to me:
“ARRIVING IN TOWN BY SUNSET STOP
YOU’D BETTER BE ANYWHERE ELSE STOP
MAD DOG GANG”
“Why not get out of town like they say? Like you’d ordinarily do?” I asked.
“They’re coming to free Pete. I put him in jail and I didn’t just do it for the money. He’s a bad hombre and I just couldn’t bear to live with myself if I immediately ran out of town like some yellow-belly. I intend to be at the station with my pistols packed and take care of however many of them I can.”
I looked over at his guns. “How many are there?”
“Don’t know. I reckon five or six. With a little luck and if I’ve got the first draw, I bet I could take out three, maybe four of them before one of them nicks me.”
There was fear in his eyes. He’d thought this over and was doing it because he knew he couldn’t not do it. His character wouldn’t allow him. He lived as a hero and intended to die as one.
“It’s suicide,” I said.
“Like I said. You’re looking at a dead man.” He took off his boots and put them beside his chair. “The way I see it, someone needs to stand up to these men. And if it’s not me, then who?”
*
 Now, if you’ll permit me, I need to let you in on a little secret. You see, I know a bit more about Rabid Pete than I’d been letting on. Yes, Rabid Pete was a murderer, but not all murderers are created equal, you see. I’ll be the first to admit that Rabid Pete can go a little too far at times, but he ain’t never killed nobody that didn’t have it coming to them.
I know because he saved my life. There was a man who became a little too attached to me and got real jealous of all the other paying customers. He pulled a knife on me and threatened to use it if he ever found out I was seeing anybody but him ever again.
Well, I went to ol’ Rabid Pete and let him know. That man wasn’t so attached to me anymore, on account of his Rabid Pete used that knife to make sure his head was no longer attached to his body.
Harsh? Perhaps. Gruesome? Certainly. But it got the job done and, from that day on, word got around that you don’t want to threaten none of the women here in Diablo.
As for the rest of the Mad Dog Gang, well they had an image to uphold. They were scary. Yes, they’d be coming this way, but they didn’t want to kill no man ‘less he deserved it. Everett, so far as I could see, wasn’t a man deserving of death. He was just a little naive, you might say. Thick-headed and too full of himself to fit anybody else’s logic in there.
The Mad Dog Gang, they were no doubt coming to get Rabid Pete out of jail, but they wouldn’t want to hurt poor ol’ Everett, all things being what they were. They were just hoping he’d be scared enough to get the hell out of Diablo County so they didn’t need to kill him. So long as he stayed here, he was putting them in a bind. They didn’t want to kill him, but they didn’t want to look like no cowards, neither.
And if he was going to stick around and be a hero by firing first, well, any bullets they fired back at Everett would qualify as self-defense.
So the best thing for all parties involved was for Everett to head on out on his own accord, saving his life and the gang’s face along with it.
*
“You should get out of here while you still have a chance,” I told him. “These men. I’ve heard of them and you’re right. You’re going to die.”
“I know. And if that’s the price I have to pay to be true to myself, to do what’s right, then that’s what it is.”
He stood up and loosened his belt.
“Like I said,” he said, “I made my decision. You can spend your time trying to talk me out of it, or you can make the most of my final moments above ground. What do you do?”
“That all depends, what do you want?”
“I guess nothing special. Straight missionary is pleasing enough for me.”
“That suits me fine,” I said.
I loosened my garters and spread my legs for Everett, it seemed almost mechanical.
The thing about these hero types is that they weren’t comfortable being rescued. Here I laid in this bed, trying my best to tell him in no uncertain words that he had to get out of town to save himself and he wouldn’t listen on account of he had his mind set and he didn’t want to see himself as no coward.
He dropped his pants and came toward me.
I know how these hero types think because, deep down, I think I may be one of them, too. Countless men have come to me, thinking I was in some sort of trouble that would have led me to this kind of work. Good-looking, rich men who may have made fine husbands for someone else.
But that wasn’t what I wanted. I didn’t want nobody holding that sort of thing over my head. The way it was here, I got to choose my own clients and handle my own money and didn’t need to give no explanation to no one. Certainly no one who thought that I owed them for saving me from a life that, all things being equal, wasn’t so bad.
At this moment, though, I wanted nothing better than to save Everett, and maybe the best thing for him was to get that need of his met so he could stop thinking with his pecker and start using his brain instead.
*
Everett did his thing and it was pleasant enough. It didn’t last very long, but he didn’t overstay his welcome, neither. He was the kind of guy that liked to get attached afterwards which was fine, so long as he was paying.
The afternoon had passed and I could see the sun was low in the sky. I knew he saw it too.
“I suppose I better be going, then.”
“Everett,” I said. “Please, don’t go.”
“Miss Claudia,” he said, pulling up his pants, “maybe you didn’t hear me before, but this isn’t a choice you get to make. I’m heading off to my death and I thank you for giving me something to remember as I’m bleeding out.”
That hero instinct was kicking in for both of us. He had to go sacrifice himself to be a hero and I wanted nothing more to save him from a pointless death. The fact was that we were safer with Rabid Pete out of prison, as vicious as he was. I’d been with Rabid Pete and you don’t make love with a man without learning a thing or two about him.
Rabid Pete was a gentle lover and refused to do anything that he thought might hurt me. And I couldn’t say the same for all the men I’d been with, especially those that ended up dead by his hand.
“Take me with you, then,” I said. “Take me to the station.”
“Now Miss Claudia, that ain’t no place for a woman and you know it.”
“It’s not a question, Mr. St. John. You take me or I follow you and it’s as simple as that.”
He buttoned his shirt and began to slip his feet into his boots.
“Miss Claudia,” he said, standing up, fully dressed, “I thank you again.”
He took his hat and guns and walked out the door.
I jumped out of the bed and put my clothes on. There wasn’t much time to waste.
*
I managed my way to the station and saw him there, watching off in the distance as the sun was setting, waiting for the train to come through.
I went to the ticket booth and bought two tickets to Doughtry, the next train out of the station, leaving in 10 minutes.
I came up behind Everett.
“You realize now that it won’t just be those hardened criminals on that train. There’ll likely be women and children, too.”
He considered the thought.
“The way I see it,” I said, “there are two ways you can be a hero today. The first is what you’re planning. You can pull your gun and shoot the bad guys, as many as you can, but that won’t be enough, will it? Because you won’t get them all, you’ll end up dead, and Rabid Pete still escapes from prison.”
“I’m aware of all that.”
“It just doesn’t sound so good to me. It sounds senseless.”
“Okay,” he said, “then what’s the second way.”
“The second way is we take the train to Doughtry, we find ourselves a chapel, and we get ourselves hitched.”
“You asking me to marry you, Miss Claudia?”
“I’m just offering a solution so that you can be a hero without ending up dead.”
This was difficult for me. It meant playing a victim and I hate being treated as a victim. But I hate seeing innocent men gone to waste even more. I’d be giving up some freedom, too, but I wasn’t getting any younger and maybe settling down would do me good.
“That’s very kind of you,” he said, “and, circumstances being different, I would love to make you Mrs. St. John. I honestly would. You’re a mighty pretty young lady and I think you’ll make a man very happy one day.”
I make men happy every day, I thought, but kept it to myself.
I tried reasoning with him, but it wasn’t working. It was time to resort to more forceful measures.
I pulled a derringer out from beneath my dress and pointed it at him, hidden from everyone else’s view.
“What are you doing?” he asked.
“I don’t want nobody to die,” I said, “but I’d rather have one person dead than four or five.”
“They’re bad men,” he said.
“That’s your opinion. My opinion is everybody’s got the capacity of good everyone’s got the capacity of evil. ‘Let he who is without sin cast the first stone,’ right?”
“You’re pointing a gun at me and quoting the lord Jesus Christ?”
“Don’t matter none who I’m quoting,” I said. “I’m pointing the gun at you and I think you’re too much a gentleman to fire back on a woman. All the same, turn around because we’re getting on that train.”
“Which one?”
“That one there,” I said, gesturing with the hand that didn’t have the gun at his back. “The one to Doughtry.”
“You’re not really gonna shoot me, are you?”
“I’d rather not, but you said it yourself: you’re a dead man. Ain’t nothing wrong with shooting a dead man, especially if it can save a few lives. Let’s walk.”
I pushed him forward toward the train.
“You know, there’s a life after this one and you’re going to need to answer to your sins.”
“You talking about the whoring or are you talking about the killing?”
“The killing, Miss Claudia.”
I handed him the tickets. “Pass these to the conductor,” I said.
He handed them to the conductor, who marked them and directed us to our cabin.
“The way I see it,” I said, “you’re going to save me. You don’t make me shoot you, then I ain’t no murderer. You settle down and marry me, then I guess I ain’t no whore, neither. If you believe in a hell, then you’re my salvation. How’s that for being a hero?”
“Not sure how much of a hero I’m being if you’re forcing me into the role.”
We got to our cabin and went inside. “Everett St. John,” I said, sliding my derringer back into its holster. “I’m going to put my gun away and then you’ve got your two choices. You can walk out of this train, go out there, and shoot a few men and almost certainly die in the process, or you can stay with me in this private cabin for however long it takes to Doughtry. I don’t know about you, but the second option sounds a bit more fun.”
“You make a compelling point,” he said, “but you’re forgetting one thing.”
“And what’s that?”
“Premarital relations are a sin.”
“Didn’t seem to bother you a few hours ago.”
“I suppose not.”
“Besides,” I said, “we can always beg for Jesus’s forgiveness when we’re done.”
He smiled. “You know, Miss Claudia? I like the way you think.”
The train whistle blew and the wheels started to turn on the track. We were off to Doughtry.
“You really want to marry me?” he asked. “You’d do that to keep me from killing?”
“I’ll do it to keep you from dying,” I said.
“You don’t hardly know me.”
“I don’t,” I said, “but I got a good idea the kind of guy you are.”
“And what kind is that?”
“The kind that makes a good husband.”
“What makes you so sure?”
I looked out the window at the vast desert land, tumbleweeds blowing in the wind and cacti casting their long late afternoon shadows. It was beautiful, in its own way.
“I’m the kind of woman who just decides to be sure sometimes,” I said. “It feels right, so it must not be too bad. I’ve made some rough decisions in my life, but ain’t none I would take back for a second if given the chance. If I’m wrong, I’m wrong, but what if I’m right?”
“I guess I didn’t think of it like that.” He looked me square in the eyes. “Let me ask you just one question, then.”
“Go for it.”
“You weren’t really going to shoot me, were you?”
“Mr. Everett St. John, the second I pulled out that gun, I knew one of two things was going to happen. Either I was going to kill you or I was going to marry you.”
“Well,” he said, “all things being equal, I’m glad we’re going with the second.”
“Me, too.”