Marcia was just thinking about how dull her day was when she felt the gun up against her temple.
“If anybody moves, I will shoot this woman.”
But, of course, that’s Murphy’s Law. You drop your son off at daycare and think you’ll have the day to yourself after depositing a check, and then you’re taken hostage by a man in a ski-mask who’s holding you against his body, his face so close you can smell his Old Spice body wash.
Marcia’s heart fluttered in her chest and she was shaking. The man’s face leaned in close and she felt his breath on her ear as he whispered, “Don’t worry: It’s not loaded.” There was something about his voice that inspired confidence. The man had a gun to her head, but she felt safe. He said it wasn’t loaded and she believed him.
He spoke to the crowd of people and tellers, who instinctively put their hands in the air and froze. His voice was powerful, but calm. “Do not trigger the alarms. Hands where I can see them everyone. I apologize, I don’t mean to yell, but I want to make sure that everybody’s on the same page: We do this nice and smooth, nobody gets hurt, and we all get on with our days.”
“Security.” He whipped around to face a security officer, turning her in the process, strong and deliberate, but with finesse, as if performing a ballroom dance. Her cheek leaned against his bicep, holding her against him, and she half wanted to wrap her fingers around his forearm.
The security officer stood by the entrance, stunned as anyone else. “Please place your gun on the floor,” the man said. The officer took his gun out of its holster using his thumb and forefinger and, in slow motion, lowered his body to set the gun down. He looked up at the man.
 “Very nice,” the man said. “Kick it towards me, please.” He could have been asking a stranger for the time. The security officer stood up and touched the tip of his toe to the gun, pushing forward so it slid across the linoleum, like a puck on ice. The man placed his foot out, with little effort, and the gun stopped right below the heel. He kept Marcia tight against him as he dipped down to pick it up, and she sank into his chest. He released the magazine from the gun onto the floor as he stood up, then secured the barrel in the back of his pants.
“Thank you, sir.” He nodded at the security officer. “Do we have a manager I can speak to?”
A man standing by a desk towards the back spoke up. “I’m Edward Valdez. And I’m the manager.”
“Mr. Valdez,” the man said, “would you be so kind as to join us over here?”
Valdez stood up and walked towards the man. The room was silent save for the sound of the echoing footsteps. This was a man in control, and nobody dared say a word. He whispered again in Marcia’s ear, “Thank you so much. You’re doing great.”
Thanking her. For being his hostage.
“I couldn’t do this without you.”
Marcia looked up at the ski-mask and imagined a charmer from an old movie. Like Errol Flynn or maybe Clark Gable. A perpetual sly smile across his face, but the thin moustache was out of style. He probably had a light, trim beard, instead. She wished he would at least take the lower portion of the mask off so she could feel him against her face.
The man looked towards Valdez, who was visibly shaken, but doing his best to hide it. The man took his time with every word, as if delivering an instructional video.
“Correct me if I’m wrong, Mr. Valdez,” the robber said, “but this bank is insured, yes?” He was speaking to Valdez, but in such a way that everyone could hear him.
“It is.”
“So if I were to take any amount of money, the insurance company — to whom you pay a hefty premium — will happily reimburse you.”
“That’s correct.”
“That doesn’t sound like it’s worth getting killed over, does it?”
“No, sir.”
“So you wouldn’t want anyone to be a hero, Mr. Valdez, would you?”
“No, sir.”
“Could you please tell all the nice people in here that you don’t want a hero?”
Valdez cleared his throat. “We don’t need a hero, today. Everything’s fine. Let’s just all remain calm and give the man what he wants.”
“Thank you, sir. Now would you ask your tellers to come out here to the middle of the lobby and lie on the floor.”
Valdez nodded, “Do what he says, everybody.”
The tellers moved out from behind the counter and laid down.
“Yes, very good,” the robber said. “And both of you,” he pointed to the two guests standing in front of the windows, who had their transactions interrupted by the robbery, “I’m terribly sorry, but could you lie down next to them as well? I promise to be out of your hair in just a few minutes.”
They did so.
“Perfect. I really appreciate your cooperation. Every one of you. Now, Mr. Valdez, would you be so kind as to take us to the vault in the back?”
“I’d be happy to.”
Valdez led them behind the teller’s desk. Walking right in front of the man, Marcia couldn’t remember the last time she had been this close to someone. Two months? Three? His legs moved right behind hers and he held her in a perpetual embrace as they made their way to a door with an electronic number keypad above the knob.
Valdez reached for the keypad when the man interrupted him. “I want to be clear, Mr. Valdez. I trust you to do the right thing, so I doubt I need to say this, but be very careful entering your codes in. I don’t want you to accidently put in the ‘emergency code.’ I want to see that green light on the first try. Take as much time as you need. We’re not in any kind of rush.”
“I understand completely.”
Four beeps on the keypad followed by a chime and the door opening. The man turned towards everybody lying down on the lobby floor.
“Ladies and gentlemen, sit tight, and we’ll be right back. No heroes, right, Mr. Valdez.”
Valdez projected his voice to the crowd. “No heroes!”
“I really can’t thank you all enough.”
They walked through the door and the man turned toward Valdez, “I hate to be a bother, but could you keep the door propped open so we can keep an eye on everyone? I don’t want anybody getting hurt and I’m sure you don’t either. Are we on the same page?”
Veldez nodded. “One hundred percent.”
“I am very sorry for this inconvenience.”
“It’s quite all right,” Valdez said. Were either of these guys for real? Marcia thought. The one is robbing the bank and apologizing, the other getting his banked robbed and accepting it.
Down the hall, Marcia saw the vault. She might have expected a large turnstile lock, but it was another small digital keypad.
“Mr. Valdez?” the man asked.
“I’ve got it, don’t worry.”
Valdez walked toward the vault door and the robber followed behind him, Marcia still tight in his grasp. She wasn’t sure she wanted him to ever let go.
“You doing okay?” the man whispered in Marcia’s ear.
“Yeah.”
“My name’s Sean, what’s yours?” Sean. Not Errol or Clark. Sean.
“Marcia.”
“Nice to meet you, Marcia,” Sean said. “You’re going to have quite the story to tell your husband tonight, won’t you?”
“I don’t have a husband.”
“Boyfriend?”
“Cats.”
“Well, you’ll have quite the story to tell your cats, then.”
A buzz came from the vault door, accompanied by a red light.
“Christ,” Valdez said.
“What did I tell you, Mr. Valdez? I don’t want to see any mistakes.”
“I put in the right code,” Valdez said. “But it’s programmed to reset if someone triggers the alarm.”
 Nobody said anything for a few seconds.
“I’m sorry, I wish I could cooperate,” Valdez added. “I can’t open this thing for 24 hours.”
“Well, that’s disappointing,” Sean said. For a second or two, Marcia could see him consider his options. “I do apologize, but I must be on my way.” He released Marcia and walked out of the room.
A smile grew across Valdez’s face and quickly evolved into laughter. He looked at Marcia. “What just happened?”
Marcia smiled back, then ran after Sean.
In the lobby, everybody was still on the floor and Sean was at the entrance. “Ladies and gentlemen, I again apologize for the inconvenience. Please have a wonderful day and thank you for your patience. You can resume your normal business and I hope I haven’t interrupted things too much.”
He took a bow, then opened the door and walked out.
Marcia ran out after him, towards his car, a small blue Miata parked right out in front, already running, that he was getting into now.
“Sean!” she said.
He looked up at her. “Yes?” She didn’t have a follow-up.
“I’m in a bit of a hurry and don’t have time to stop and chat,” Sean said. “You’re no longer my hostage, but you’re still welcome to come join me if you’d like.” He sat down in his car and closed the door. Marcia opened the passenger side door and stepped in as well.
 “I was hoping you’d do that,” Sean said.
She pulled the bottom of his ski mask up and gave him a long, hard kiss on the mouth, feeling his stubble against her chin.
“And that,” he said, “I wasn’t expecting at all.”
He reached in to kiss her, moving his mouth across hers in the same fluid and patient way he was speaking before. There was no rush, just a feeling of being there and allowing Marcia to enjoy every second of the experience. A faint siren approached from a distance, but rather than abruptly end things, Sean allowed the kiss to reach its natural conclusion, by which point the police had the Miata surrounded.
Sean sighed and reached for the door.
“Sean, wait.”
“They’ve got me, Marcia. They got me fair and square.”
“No, they haven’t.”
“Look at the lights, they’re here. They’ve got me. I’m going to jail.”
“I don’t think so.”
She handed him her business card: Marcia Jackson, Criminal Attorney
“Don’t say a word to them. Let me do the talking,” Marcia said. “You’re not going to jail. Maybe you’ll need to do a few hours of community service.”
“That’s it?”
“Some community service and maybe buy me dinner.”
Sean smiled. “I would love to.”
